- [Instructor] Okay, so we are now inside the AFLUC.
We have put a condition that
we are going to restrict the access
to the servlet for these two URL patterns,
Order History and Get Profile Details
for the two links that you've already seen on Home Page.
So what do we do under this?
What we need to do is on line number 27,
I'm going to take the HTTP session first.
So we know that if it is a previous session,
if it's already a set up session,
the request.get session API
will just return me that existing session, right?
So now here inside,
I am going to do one more thing.
I'm going to say, "if session.get attribute user name"
okay?
If this is null,
it means I'm not able to get
a correct username in the session
which means the session is messed up.
Either invalidated or malicious access or whatever.
So let's go ahead and put that condition
and if it is indeed null,
what I'm going to do, I'm just going to take that request object,
get the request dispatcher,
and just ask the user to move to the login page.
Nothing more.
We're just going to ask the user
to log in again.
That's all.
This will be arg1,
which is a response.
Okay?
So just abruptly terminator request execution,
go back to login.jsp
and say, "please login again"
because I'm not able to find the session for you, okay?
Let's say we get the value for username.
In that case, we are good,
so we can allow the user to go ahead
and access the next page
and it essentially means that
we have to called servlet, right?
So that call will be taken over by filter chain parameter,
so on line number 35,
I'm going to take that filter chain parameter,
and I'm going to call do filter.
And pass the request and response objects along.
What is this call doing?
This is a very important
and critical statement that you need to write
in the code.
This is the line which is going to now take
the control to the next servlet.
The next servlet as in whichever servlet
the user tried to access from the browser.
Okay?
If you have more than one filter in your application,
then this call is going to take you to the next filter.
If you have, let's say three filters,
then this call is going to take you to second filter.
Inside the second filter,
there'll be a call like this again
which will take you to the third filter.
So on and so forth,
so this chaining process that you do
is extremely critical otherwise your flow
will not complete.
The filters that you can configure in your application
and the servlet together form a filter chain.
And the the do filter call that you're making
on line number 35
is going to ensure that you make those hops
from filter number one to filter number two,
to filter number N and then finally, the servlet.
So in all the filters that you're configuring
for your application
the insertion of this call is a must.
Please do not forget that, okay?
Now, whatever you write
before this call, is basically the preprocessing.
So all of this logic that we have written out here
is a part of preprocessing of the request.
And let's say if you want to do any post processing,
that will come after the chaining call.
Right?
So as of now, in our authentication use case
we really don't have any post processing
so we're going to stick only to preprocessing, okay?
Now that we have done this,
let's do the configuration of this filter class.
For that, let's go to web XML.
Let's open that.
And let's come here
And do the filter mapping.
So I'm on line number 50.
Filter Configuration will be done by two tags.
The first one, is filter,
which has a couple of other tags again.
Filter name, give it a name
which is a logical name of course,
of your choice.
I'm going to call it authentication filter.
And filter class which is a fully qualified class
name of your filter class.
So let's pick that up from the class itself.
Come.test.filter
copy this from line number one.
Go to XML,
paste it on line number 52
along with the name of third class.
Okay.
So authentication filter.
One this is done,
there is another tag that you need to define.
So on line number 54,
I'm going to define the filter mapping tag.
That's how it goes.
And under that again,
you have a couple of tags.
So we have filter name
which is exactly same as the filter name that you've defined
under the filter tag.
Okay,
I'm pasting it on line number 55.
And you have something which is call this URL pattern.
Now, this URL pattern
is not for the filter.
What this URL pattern signifies is
that for how many servlets in your application
is this filter going to run?
If your user is trying to access
any point in your application
it will be through a servlet.
Correct?
So when ever you want to access a servlet,
do you want that this filter runs first
as a part of preprocessing?
That is what the URL pattern signifies.
So let's say if I put a slash star,
it means that all the servlets
whenever they run,
this filter is going to run before that servlet.
That is what this means.
Generally, in a live project,
this is the kind of configuration that we do.
We incorporate the filter for all the servlet URL patterns.
Okay?
So I'm going to stick to this configuration.
Do not worry about this too much
because when it come in the filter,
we have anyway,
filtered out the URL's
by this mechanism.
So it's alright because right now
the application requirement
is that I need a restriction only for these two URL's.
You may not put a restriction like that
for filtering of URL's in your actual project,
because you may really want to invoke the filter
for every other servlet
running in your application.
So we are good.
Let's also see how can you do the configuration
of the filter for the class
via annotation?
So what we can do is, we can come here on line number 14
and annotate this class
with annotation list.
We just stop the server
and say web filter.
That's the annotation.
And you can mention the URL pattern
in the form of double codes.
So let's say I say slash star
it means that this authentication filter
is going to get executed for every servlet's URL pattern
in your application.
However, if you really want to go ahead
and choose specific patterns
that you can annotate with this.
Go and mention all your URL patterns like that.
If you also want to pass on any kind
of initialization configuration for this filter,
then you can do so via the initParams property.
So you can go ahead and say,
"equal to", and then go ahead and say,
"web innit Param",
that's the one.
So you can photo-configurate with the name and key value.
This is going to be very similar the way that we have done
for our servlet classes.
So you either choose the annotation way of configuration
or you stick to the XML
that we did a while ago.
So I'm going to go ahead and save this.
Yes, so that's a filter mapping.
Yeah, and now let's quickly look at the PPD's
in the filter class.
We have retrieved the session for those sensitive URL's.
We have checked the valid username
and we've gone back to the login page
in case no user was found.
So there we are.
We have completed all the changes,
now let's go ahead and deploy this project.
We're going to run this.
Let me now log in first.
Admin, admin.
Alright, so now I'm on my homepage.
So if I click on View My Profile,
I will get to the profile page, right?
Now, hold on.
I'm going to take this link
from the address bar,
copy it and I'm going to open an incognito window.
Why?
Because incognito window will never save
your session information.
Please remember this.
So in order to test out the scenario filters,
I will have to go to the incognito window,
paste to this URL.
So this is a simulation
of those cases where the user is trying to malicously access
this URL from some other machine
or maybe I'm accessing the URL on the same machine
and the session timed out.
Right?
So let's click on enter.
Do you see what happened?
I came back to the login page.
I didn't go to the Profile Page.
I came back to the login
because I realize that in this window
I am not able to find a session's username.
So the session is gone and somebody is trying to probably
you create a problem.
So I safely directed the user back to the login page.
That is because I have configured the filter for this.
So the same tagging that you saw
that it came back to the login page
is because that filter code is executing correctly.
Okay, so this is what it is in the incognito window.
Let's go back to the main window.
Oh, let me close this.
And here we are,
so I'm just going to log out,
and we're also going to test the case
of an invalid login.
So let me click on the login hyperlink
and enter some wrong credentials.
You see?
So we got the invalid credentials.
"Please log in again" message
on the login page or cell.
So you can login again
and then enter the system, right?
So this is what you can do with the filter.
Any click on the page,
any links that you access
if you want that, it goes through an authentication process.
You can go ahead and define a filter like that
and put in your logic for it.
So filters make it modular
because this is not a part of your business logic.
It's more maintanable
and it is absolutely critical
in your application.